We are a simple people.
We have nothing of value to rob.
I did not come to take.
I'm looking for someone.
Magnus Olafsson.
We've heard he's in the North
and his soldiers have passed through
on their way to Stromsfoss.
- How far is that?
- Not far.
We are cutting wood for their meeting.
Hold.
You killed my sister.
What's going on?
Leif! Stop!
It's me.
So this is the Army
that all of our fighting
helped you to purchase.
Part of it. Destinies do not come cheap.
How did you learn of Freydis?
A bishop traveling with Magnus told me
that he poisoned Jomsborg.
Some of her people escaped
and she was not among them.
So you went there?
On my way north,
I found the shrine they had built for her.
Nothing else.
No sign of my child?
No.
It was her destiny to go there.
I hope she found what she was looking for.
Harald.
If Magnus murdered my sister,
I will kill him.
Not if I reach him first.
Harald.
Jarl Nori.
- Welcome home.
- Vestian.
And Greenlander, good to see you again.
And you both.
I knew you would return.
I brought forces to back me
and riches for my allies.
I'm ready to be king.
May not be
as simple as you have planned.
Magnus has agreements with many
of the Jarls to back him on Svein's death.
He has the power of the Church.
The Pope has threatened excommunication
for anyone who goes against him.
Including you.
And where do you stand?
Olaf was like a brother to me.
But his son is a Viking in name only.
Our allegiance is with you.
I'm glad to hear that.
Do you know where Magnus is?
No, but he has summoned
the Jarls to Kattegat.
Then that is where we're going.
Thank you.
My God! Freydis!
Queen Aelfgifu.
We heard you were dead.
Magnus claimed a plague
had stricken Jomsborg.
Is he in Kattegat?
No, he's trying to turn
the Jarls against Svein.
My son is hunting him now.
This is my daughter-in-law, Katla.
Svein's wife?
Congratulations, Katla.
You're expecting.
Thank you, Freydis.
I have heard much about you
and your child by Prince Harald.
It is a romantic story.
That was a long time ago.
Much has changed.
And how is your son?
He is well in Greenland.
Magnus forced me to find
a new home for my people.
We got as far as Greenland.
But I need a boat
and a sea captain to get us further.
A boat and a captain?
Then we are the bearers
of some very good tidings.
This is Leif's?
Canute gave it to him
so that he may explore new worlds.
New worlds? Where is he now?
When he heard that you were poisoned,
he went after Magnus to kill him.
Then I must find him.
He's somewhere in the North.
You would do better to wait for him here
so as not to miss him when he returns.
My Earls.
In the years that I have been your king,
I have given you stability.
And providence.
Even in death,
I prepared for the same.
Therefore, I decree that after my passing,
my wife, Queen Emma,
will be your ruler.
What say you?
My lord.
Sussex swears to uphold your decree.
East Anglia promises
to uphold your decree.
- As does Kent.
- As does Wiltshire.
As does Mercia.
- Wimbledon agrees.
- As does York, my lord.
Wessex upholds your decree.
It is unanimous.
You sent for me, my lord.
Do not tire him.
Earl Godwin.
You have always been a faithful advisor.
And you a generous king.
And a friend.
And I am grateful for your service.
But I have known from the beginning
who it was you were really serving.
It was why I offered you Gytha
in marriage.
Bringing you into my family.
Making it yours
and making it possible that one day,
your children might rule England.
If that was your plan, Your Highness,
then it was a masterful one.
But that day,
if it is to come,
is many years away.
And if you have any hope
of ever seeing it,
you must support Emma now.
Your family depends on it.
Do you understand?
I do, my lord.
Goodbye, Your Highness.
You must call for Edward.
Why? He has made his decision.
With all due respect, my lady,
his love for you blinds him
from the reality of the situation.
When he is gone, the Earls regardless
of their oaths will turn against you
and England will be thrust into Civil War.
Your brother will use that
as justification for an attack,
as will Norway, as will Denmark,
and everything that your husband
has created will be destroyed.
Edward would have
the support of the nobles
and I can make certain
they would support your regency.
Do you not agree?
I do.
But it's not necessary to send for Edward.
I already have.
King Svein.
We found him, Your Highness.
His camp is not far.
And what of support?
He is alone.
Block his escape.
I want him dead.
Magnus Olafsson.
I know of your plan to take
the Throne of Norway from me.
You have broken the oath
between King Forkbeard and your father,
and therefore, face the penalty of death.
I was there, Svein.
Forkbeard made my father
greet me in shame.
Like this, nakedness covered only by rags.
It was an oath.
It was a mockery.
While you received the benefit
of my father's guidance,
I was shuttled from court to court
in Denmark and England.
I was no one's child.
That gave me time to think and plan.
Plan for what?
To meet with the Jarls
and steal my throne?
I didn't come up here
to meet with the Jarls, Svein.
I came up here to kill you.
What are you doing?
I am the King!
You were the old King. I am the new one.
In case you're worried about your mother
or your pretty wife, don't be.
I will take care of them
when I return to Kattegat.
My lord. We have a problem.
Prince Harald is back
and on his way to Kattegat.
What brought you back to Norway?
I came to find a boat.
I want to search for a land I once saw
when I was a child.
When I was in Kattegat,
I met Canute and he gifted me a ship.
Canute was in Kattegat?
He's dying.
Brought his sons there to determine
who would succeed him as King of England.
And who did he choose?
None of them.
He chose Queen Emma.
I'm surprised Kaysan did not choose
to come to Norway with you.
He didn't have a choice.
Kaysan is dead.
As are Dorn and Batu.
How?
Does it matter?
Yes, it does.
I sense a hardening in you, my friend.
I no longer recognize
the Harald Sigurdsson I used to know.
It's because he no longer exists.
You were right in Constantinople.
I lost sight of my destiny
but I won't lose sight of it again.
The Harald Sigurdsson you knew is dead.
- My horse.
- Yes.
Dear God,
it cannot be so.
Tell me. What news?
It's not good for you, I'm afraid.
There's a new King of Norway,
which means that your son is dead.
Go, all of you.
Take him.
The King's guards serve the King.
I have been Queen
of this country for seven years.
You will find taking this throne
far easier than keeping it.
I certainly hope not.
Taking this throne has required
much more patience than I'm used to.
The time will come
when a true Viking will meet you,
and you will learn
just how brutal
this land you desire really is.
Please. Spare me.
I'm afraid I can't do that.
The child that you carry is a threat
to a long and happy rule.
I must deal with all threats,
no matter how large or small.
I know something! Someone you want.
Freydis.
Harald!
Wife. It is time that we talk again.
I forgive you for freeing Freydis.
I do not forgive you for locking her up.
And I do not forgive you
for taking my grandson.
Come now, you know I would never hurt him.
He is on an adventure with the Kalaallit.
Stígr and Freydis have probably
caught up with them by now.
And Lang?
I know you sent him to hunt them down.
What he does to Stígr I cannot control
but he will not hurt Freydis.
I know he won't
because she is not looking for Harald.
I told you I freed my daughter.
I did not tell you where she went.
Katla, you summoned me? Has Leif returned?
No.
What is wrong? Where's Aelfgifu?
I'm sorry, Freydis.
Katla, get behind me.
I can't.
If you have any hope
for your child, do as I say.
Get behind me now!
Rest, my love.
Go to Winchester.
You must be close
to the treasury to maintain power.
I'm not leaving your side.
When have I ever been able
to tell you what to do?
You know when I fell in love with you?
On the bridge.
Do you remember?
You were trying to stay out of sight.
Counselling Edmund.
But when he ordered the archer to kill me…
- I stopped him.
- Yes.
You have brought me…
much joy, Emma of Normandy.
And you me,
my Emperor of the Great Northern Empire.
Hmm.
I'm not ready for you to leave.
Stay with me longer.
Please.
King Sweyn is dead.
King Forkbeard swore an oath
that on his death,
I would be named King of Norway.
And now, all that remains
is a vote by you.
An excellent idea, nephew.
But first,
I must remind the Jarls of a promise
they made long before yours
to crown me as King
upon your father's death.
We did not know you had returned,
Prince Harald.
You do now.
Prince Harald speaks the truth.
He is the rightful King of Norway.
Unfortunately, the Pope will not accept
a king with Pagan sympathies.
What are you talking about?
Pagan sympathies?
What is she doing here?
A witch!
I thought she was dead.
- Hey, it's the witch!
- Freydis.
Freydis.
So, tell us, Freydis.
Are you a Christian?
You know the answer to that.
I will take that as a "no".
And are you the one the heathens call
the Last Daughter of Uppsala?
The Keeper of the Faith,
the leader of the Pagans.
I am.
And do you have a child
with Harald Sigurdsson?
I do.
A son. His name is Harald.
A Pagan son!
If you vote for Harald Sigurdsson,
you are inviting the anger
of the Holy Father,
and he will punish you for this decision.
- It's Magnus!
- Harald.
I support Magnus.
- Gather around, people.
- Magnus, yeah.
Vestian, who do you support?
Sigurdsson!
He's the King of Norway.
Harald has the right to a claim.
I support Harald!
And you?
So…
We have reached a decision.
It is decided that you, Harald Sigurdsson,
are entitled the Throne of Norway.
But that you, Magnus Olafsson,
also have a claim.
It is our decision, therefore,
that you will rule together.
What say you both?
I understand.
And I accept your decision.
I too accept your decision.
But on one condition.
That tomorrow, when my father's shrine
is to be consecrated,
Harald promises to all that Norway
will never go back to its old ways,
and agrees to burn the Pagan witch.
Harald Sigurdsson. What say you?
I say burn her.
Yeah, burn her!
Yeah!
Witch!
Burn, Pagan!
Move!
Get the fire!
Burn her!
- Burn her!
- Burn the witch!
Do not come near me, Christian.
Or I swear on my gods
I will kill you with my bare hands.
That sounds like something you might do.
Leif.
I went to Jomsborg looking for you.
I thought you were dead.
Then you saw what Magnus did.
Yes. And your son, is he here?
No. He's in Greenland.
You went home?
Not to stay.
We were journeying west
to find a new home.
The one you used to tell me about.
- The Golden Land.
- Yes…
but Father stole my ships
and killed our captain
to force us to stay.
And took Harald away.
I managed to escape…
…and came here to find a new captain
to go back for them.
Well, you did.
And if we are to find you a new home,
you must listen carefully
to what I tell you.
You could not free her?
The only chance of saving her is tomorrow
when they plan to burn her.
For that, I will need your help.
Please. I cannot help you.
Yes, you can.
And, yes, you will.
I need as much oil like this
as you can find me.
Why?
To do something
I swore I'd never do again.
My lady?
Harald Sigurdsson.
Magnus Olafsson.
In the name of the Holy Trinity,
you must promise three things
to our people.
To preserve peace among Christians,
forbid robbery and unrighteous things,
and command justice.
Do you commit to this promise?
I do.
King Harald!
King Magnus!
And in keeping with our oath,
it is now time
that we right a great wrong.
- Witch!
- That's a heathen!
Send her to Hell!
Send that witch to Hell!
Burn her!
The pagan must die.
Kill the witch!
Freydis Eriksdotter,
you have admitted to the murder
of the beatified Olaf Haraldsson.
I have done nothing
but defend the old beliefs.
Beliefs you all once held sacred.
Heresy!
I demand to fight my accusers and let
the gods decide who should live and die.
Only the one true God can
determine guilt or innocence.
No. Our Viking gods control our fate.
We are not moved by your pleas
to myths and false idols.
Begin this.
I call the gods to this meeting!
All-powerful gods.
Hear me now.
Rise up and protect us from this heresy!
She's a witch!
Strike down your anger
and redden these walls with blood!
The gods returned!
This world will fall sooner
than our old gods yield!
She has called the gods back to Kattegat.
Magnus, the gods have come for you!
They're going to kill us all!
Do not fear the witch!
It is a trick. She commands no power here.
What's wrong, Magnus?
You look troubled.
What are you waiting for? Light it!
- Magnus!
- No!
What? What is this?
In tribute to you.
Thank you, Your Highness.
Edward. Agnarr.
The Earls must be informed
that Edward is home.
A Witan must be called.
Queen Emma,
it is so nice to see you again.
What is this?
Where's Edward?
In Normandy. I assume.
I'm afraid he didn't get your message.
Come, Your Highness. There's much to do
to prepare for the Witan.
And for your coronation.
- My lady.
- Your Highness.
My lady.
It's a good thing
that you're here, my prince.
England is in need of stability.
And a strong hand.
Is that not so, my lady?
It is.
A strong hand. Yes.
Earl Godwin, I would like to speak
with my stepson alone.
I'm afraid that now is not the time.
I disagree.
Now's the perfect time.
There is still far too much to plan.
Then go and plan, Godwin.
I need to meet with the Queen.
Look!
Harald.
Harald!
Stígr, wake up!
It is Harald.
Why did you do that?
What? Save your life?
Keep me from killing Magnus!
Because I could not allow it.
Could not? Because you must be king?
Because I am the King!
You cannot co-rule
with the killer of my people!
- He must die now!
- I know you want vengeance.
This is not about vengeance!
It's about justice!
And I made an oath that I must honor.
I see.
- An oath to them.
- No, to me!
To myself!
Not to lose something
that is important to me.
Well at least you finally
got what you always wanted.
Your destiny.
I hope it was worth it.
I could ask you the same question,
Keeper of the Faith.
It is hard.
Then we've reached the same place.
But like the first time we met,
you've stumbled
onto something bigger here.
You will be escorted out of Kattegat
by some of my ships.
Escorted? No.
My work here is not finished.
Yes, it is.
You're a force of nature, Freydis.
But Magnus is my problem, not yours.
Trust me.
I've loaded your boat with supplies.
My men can escort you
to Iceland if necessary.
It won't be.
Leif the Lucky.
May you find another miracle.
Be well, my friend.
Tell me about our son. Harald.
He's brave. And strong.
And he cares about people.
When they see him smile,
they feel like anything is possible.
Like his father.
What have you told him about me?
That you are a good man.
Fair. Just.
And that, one time,
long ago,
I loved you.
I'm no longer that man, Freydis.
I've learned the hard way.
I cannot make everything right
with my words.
And I've lost that smile you remember.
I know where your smile is, Harald.
Because I get to see it every day.
If you ever want to find it again,
all you have to do is meet our son.
Someday.
Don't wait too long.
Ship the oars!
The Pope will not think kindly of the King
who freed the saint killer.
Then I suggest we don't tell him.
The Jarls and I have been talking
about the best way
to honor this agreement
we have made, Uncle.
Don't worry.
I've already come to a decision.
Chain him up.
Throw him in a cell.
It's the only kingdom you're worthy of.
You cannot do this!
I am a king!
No! Jarls!
Stop him!
This is an outrage!
This is my ruling!
The first of many.
And if any of you have a problem with it,
then you are more
than welcome to join him.
From this day forward, I will make
this kingdom the most powerful on Earth.
And I dare any Viking to challenge me.
For I am the King of Norway.
I am Harald Hardrada!
Hardrada! Hardrada!